# Final-Project-Repository.-Tigran-Kamalian
This is the public repository for my final project 
Concept of operations 
Base64 is a collection of binary-to-text encoding techniques that encode binary data (particularly, a sequence of 8-bit bytes) into 24-bit sequences that can be represented by four 6-bit Base64 digits.Base64 encoding schemes are commonly used when there is a need to encode binary data that needs to be stored and transferred over media that are designed to deal with ASCII. This is to ensure that the data remain intact without modification during transport. (ASCII, in full American Standard Code for Information Interchange, a standard data-encoding format for electronic communication between computers. ASCII assigns standard numeric values to letters, numerals, punctuation marks, and other characters used in computers.)
Base64 is commonly used in a number of applications including email via MIME, and storing complex data in XML. One common application of Base64 encoding on the web is to encode binary data so it can be included in a data: URL.
Each Base64 digit represents exactly 6 bits of data. So, three 8-bits bytes of the input string/binary file (3×8 bits = 24 bits) can be represented by four 6-bit Base64 digits (4×6 = 24 bits).
As you might already see, the code is mostly used to encode data, and this was my goal as well while writing the code. I tried to use the basics of the C programming and the main and probably most important part of the base 64, that it representes data using 6 bit. Further exploring my code, you will be able to see the concepts that I mentioned here. Here is the basic description of the the base 64 encoder code. 
Since the overall understanding of the base 64 is given to the reader lets discuss the code and the concepts used while writing it. 
As it is seen form the information above the uniqeness of the base64 is that it encodes using 6 bits digits instead of 8. This messes up eveything for the decoder and makes hard to retrieve the intial input. Code takes the user input, which is a string of charachters, or in other words array of charachters, gives every charachter their unique and new " form " and prints it. Sounds easy, however it is not that straightforward. First the code takes three charachters at a time, and stores it in a newly formed string. Then the other function identifies how many triplets there are, from the user input. Then it the string runs through other function to see if the number of bits is less than six, and if it is divisble by six it does not have any empty bits, so it does nothing. When number gives a remainder to the division then some other function appends zeros from the right side of the resultant. Finally the string is printed and user sees the result that he got. 

This is a simple walkthrough for the code that you are going to find in the repository. So the encoder is going to encode the input of user, that is considered as a char , then it will turn it to its unique "shape" using the functions written in the code.  
